I'm here in Detroit at the north
american international auto show with me
is paul ingrassia the number two editor
for Reuters globally he is a Pulitzer
prize-winning automotive reporter you've
got a book coming out engines of change
comes out of May it's a fun read I got
see it ahead of time which was great
you're a car guy let's face it or not
this is your claim to fame you love this
stuff I'm in heaven here at the Auto
Show and it's always great to see all
the new stuff and what it means what the
different companies are trying to do and
here's a great example actually this is
the new Cadillac ATS which goes on sale
later this year December sometime it's
really sort of like jeans long latest
chapter in the quest for the company's
great white whale if you will and that
is a successful small Cadillac the first
one was introduced in 1985 @ can't like
Cimarron it was a rebadged Chevrolet as
a disaster decade or so later came the
cadillac catera a rebadged opel another
disaster this one is different it is new
from the ground up it is tested for
performance on the Germany's Nurburgring
track and basically Cadillac has come
out and directly said this is our car
aimed directly at the BMW 3 Series well
it's a big worry yeah I mean can they do
that well that remains to be seen it's a
tough slog certainly the people of BMW
don't take it seriously as Mark voice is
the president of GM North
this is also a car represents a major
business initiative because Cadillac is
not a global luxury brand you know BMW
Mercedes into some extent Lexus are the
only true mass market global luxury
brands Cadillac would love to get into
that game but it's still really sort of
stuck in America so this is a lot riding
on this car this is a Dodge Dart and I
got to tell you what's interesting it's
really right you're a tall guy I don't
really feel like we're having trouble in
a compact car so that's interesting and
the inside is pretty cool looking too
yeah you know this is a very important
car for Chrysler because Chrysler has
been really had nothing at all
competitive in the basic subcompact car
segment so you've had the toyota corolla
you've had the honda civic and Chrysler
just been out of that ballgame so now
they're coming with the dodge dart which
is based on fiat architecture one number
two it revives an iconic American name
from the 60s and the 70s the people of a
certain age right remember the dodge
dart is one of those classic
bread-and-butter cars what what's really
interesting about this car is we feel
it's not only roomy inside but if you
just feel the materials some of the
plastic is soft touch plastic so it
doesn't it doesn't have a real cheap
feel inside also the accord in the the
Corolla and the Civic were really
criticized for being too bland not
stylish enough at a time when styling is
really getting back into vogue this car
has a real muscular look inside and out
don't you think but what does that mean
a muscular look you know if you look at
the front face it's a little bit more of
a a growl instead of a smile if you look
in the in the interior it's more of a
cockpit look you know sort of a you're
on the quasi test track lord I mean not
really right but it's just that sort of
look and feel of something that's more
performance-oriented more expressive I
want to see you literally kick the tires
all right because that's what you're
supposed to do is kick the tires i'm
going to see how it's done good kick the
tires like a car expert the proper car
taking tire kicking technique
is done with the inside of your foot not
with the toe of your float because you
don't want to hurt your toe right so you
is this for real it's a very is a very
firm tire Paul earlier we talked with
Alan Mulally CEO of Ford this is the car
that he wanted to talk about well that's
very understandable and this is the
2013-14 it's their new midsize family
sedan the new version of their mid-sized
family sedan aimed right at the heart of
the market this is the midsize car if
they hope will help them combat the
toyota camry the Honda Accord which
really have dominated this segment of
the market for most of the last 20 years
but along with the Hyundai Sonata that
has really come in the last few years
and has been a major factor before it is
doing here it's really moving away from
the sort of a warm land plain vanilla
styling that Camry and Accord have done
but taking more of a sonata approach if
you will sort of more stylized look so
you'll see it's a sort of a tight
compact look in the rear see the crease
the hard belt line there which is
accented by the by the door handles and
the narrow window look which is again a
more performance-oriented expressive
look for this car so this is always a
big deal at the Auto Show the winner of
the car of the year and we are standing
right in front of it bit of a surprise
to write a little bit of a surprise
Rhonda this is the hyundai elantra it
was voted Car of the Year by a large
group of journalists who come in to
cover the show so it's a pretty
competitive poll and this is a collar
that's really aimed again
subcompact level he's really aimed the
Dodge Dart we just talked about will be
fighting against this car the honda
civic will be fighting against this car
but again what Hyundai is really all
about is sort of the anti BMW BMW is all
about an understanding look a lot of
technology under the hood and in the
cockpit you know Hyundai's more about
expressive styling and offering a lot of
styling at a fairly low cost this is the
new Acura NSX a prototype actually
because it's going to take three years
to develop round up the INXS is the
Honda's first acura nsx with its first
supercar the high performance high price
sports car went out of production in
2005 it's going to be back in three
years and there's three things that are
important about this car first of all
after you really need some pizzazz you
know it doesn't have that cash a BMW or
Mercedes Benz so they really need to get
some pizzazz Mac in their product right
now the second thing is this new Acura
super car is going to be hybrid is a
dual twin torque hybrid and that sort of
thing which has some really
vanced hybrid technology delivers power
to the rear wheels in the front wheels
really makes the car go the third thing
is this vehicle is going to be assembled
assembled and developed in the United
States which is a big marketing
statement for Honda it also shows you
just how very difficult it is to make
cars in Japan and make them profitable
because the value of the end then surged
against the US dollar Paul thanks so
much for showing me all the cars of the
auto show it's been a lot of fun and to
thank you I wanted to get you a car of
your own from the show
this is it this is it I was kind of
hoping for a Bentley run you know i
don't think i'm going to work with you
again